# MLBSalaryQO

I used R to carry out the data analysis and the R package, Shiny, to create a web app straight from R. I decided to use R for this project due to its strengths in statistical computing and data visualization. R makes it easy to load in data, clean it, manipulate it, and eventually showcase meaningful insights. With the addition of the the Shiny package, which allows an R project to easily be deployed as a web app, R felt like a great choice to use in order to build a small applicaiton for the purpose of this assignment. I wanted to cite the following documentation, which was used to assist in deploying the application to an online hosted platform: https://docs.rstudio.com/shinyapps.io/getting-started.html#deploying-applications. Additional citations are included in the comments of the source code.

The source code can be seen in the repository under ui.R. It includes comments as well as citations to specific documentation and stack overflow resources used. The code in the ui.R file could be run locally in RStudio. Each time it is run locally, a local browser will pop-up with the visual component. If exited and run again the data is re-fetched, meaning the values in the visual component will change slightly. The data in the online hosted application will stay static for a short period of time, but will update if exited and returned to in a couple of minutes once the application is disconnected from the host server. The online hosted application can be accessed at the following link: https://aschnall03.shinyapps.io/mlbsalaryqo/

The visualizations include an enlarged view of the metric of interest, the qualifying offer, as well as a quick sentence contextualizing the metric and a few supporting charts. The additional charts include a table showing the mean and median of different cuts - all salaries, non-minimum salaries (which account for >50% of all salaries), and top 125. Furthermore, there are histograms for each of these cuts, which can help further contextualize the ultimate metric of interest. 
